nerd birds episode
chozo-like galactic listeners/linguists


previous: electronics projects
+ old CRT TV: high-power capacitor/tube
  - defibrulator?
  - SOS pulse: wasteful of power though...
+ signal scanner
+ statis chamber

int
ship is quiet, screens are dark.  only emergency lighting is on.
biofilters luminesce softly.

primary (small but central) display turns on

screen
signal detected 25xx-xx-xx xx:xx:xx
..source xx:yy+zz
..carrier wave xxMHz
..strength xxYY
....bound -xxYY:+xxYY
env0: restore settings 'penduin.env'...
env0: [OK]
stasis0: begin wakeup cycle...
stasis0: [OK]

lights come on, stasis chamber lights/meters come online and wakeup
cycle begins.  there are towels laid out in front of the stasis chamber
as well as a bucket, a folded blanket, (and a joke item?)

man steps out of the stasis chamber, weak on his feet, and soon falls precisely
onto the towels, and vomits into the perfectly-placed bucket.

(later)

man holds finger and thumb against side of bucket, peering into it while trying
not to smell it.

man
'bout half, getting better.  ...ugh, water.

(later)

man is dressed and surrounded by blanket, looking at screen.

man
xxMhz...

man hooks up an oscilloscope, finds an antenna bar and clamps on.  he tweaks the
controls and watches the display with a heterogenous mix of
surprise, suspiscion, and hope.

man
(with doubt/disbelief) No...

man ponders, then has an idea.  he grabs his (open) CRT TV from his project desk
and brings it over to the main console.  man clears away some junk and works at
bringing the same signal to the TV that the oscilloscope is analyzing.

(later)

man is struck dumb, his face lit up by the TV screen.  he looks down to continue
wiring this to that but can barely take his eyes off the screen.  finally he
succeeds in rebuilding the TV's audio circuit.

the old TV is playing a montage of "welcome", "hello", "greetings" clips from
various shows, mostly older and all low-definition programs, in different
languages.
- three stooges: (hello)x3
- wizard of oz: we welcome you to munchkin land
- simpsons: i bring you love!

the picture cuts out while the audio continues.  man starts fumbling behind the
CRT, and grabs a probe that's stuck under its rubber coating.  man gets a huge
shock.

black.

man wakes up on a raised surface not unlike a hostpital bed.
it is much brighter than on his ship.  painfully bright.  some
odd clicks and mumbles are heard, and the lights lower until he no longer has
to squint.  he begins looking around.

with the light less intense, tall creatures can be seen.  they have some bird-
like features such as downward beaks and talon-like appendiges, but have a
slightly insect-like appearance too, with much of their bodies covered in what
could be exoskeleton or clothing, possibly even armor.  they move slowly and
appear very curious.

one creature makes some sounds, another off-screen answers.  man is visibly
nervous and scared, and the creatures seem to have no sense of personal space.
when they look at him, they do so at very close and uncomfortable range.
some mechanisms are heard, and another creature arrives.  the others slowly
react and back away, letting the new creature stand in front of man.

creature
Good morning.

man's fear gives way to surprise, but his confusion stays redlined.

man
Uhh...  Good morning to you too.

the creatures react and mumble to each other.

creature
You are again conscious.  Do you have pain?

man
I ... Am I dreaming?  Am I still in stasis?

the creatures talk quietly amongst each other again.
they could be happy their guest is
unharmed, offended by his voice, or debating ways in which to cook him.

creature
You were sent from Earth.  You read and listen in English.  Is that correct?

man
It...  Yes.  I...  Who are you?  Where am I?

creature
We call ourselves (unintelligible sounds).  This shed orbits of our home,
(more gibberish).  Your transport is hitched to one of our lenses.

man
Hitched.  Uh...  Yeah, good.  How is it that you... speak English too?

creature talks with one of the others, the one that might be in charge, if
man were to guess.  they and several other creatures talk while man waits.

one creature exits.

creature
We listen everywhere.  We have built many lenses, many... antenna, and
we read them for waves.  Radio waves.  The waves we learn, we record for
study.  Language, to read and speak, that is our method to ... grow.  Our
method to explore.

man
You're ... linguists.  You're literature students.

creature
Bingo.

man
Or... maybe pop culture students.

the creature that left returns with a portable tablet-style device.

creature
Our home is here.  It orbits (gibberish), as The Moon orbits Earth.  Around
our home we build lenses like this one.  This shed is here, and your
transport is hitched here.  Some steps through that way.

man
You breathe oxygen?  This air is just like on my ship.  My... transport.

creature
Your ship!  Yes.  We made empty this room and inserted gasses to match the
air of your ship.  We breathe ... (gibberish).

creature reveals below his head, where a tube and mask are held over gill-like
features.  The mask separates for a moment, sounding rushing air.

man
So, you've done this before.  You've had visitors.  Like me.

the creatures talk briefly.

creature
Yes, we have had visitors.  From Earth... we have had only you.
With many sorts, we learn the waves and then the visitor arrives.  Some sorts
arrive with no waves.  Waves for you... were recorded long ago, and then no
more.

man
Our broadcasts.  Yeah, we... We started using digital signals, encoded and
compressed.  It would basically look like noise ... to your ... lenses.  But
you must use digital signals and compression.  This thing, how does it work?
Computers, integrated circuits with clocks and instructions and memory, data
files, command loops, you must have all that, or stuff like it?

the creatures talk amongst themselves for a moment.

creature
You speak about technology.  Do you compare our (gibberish) to the machines
inside your ship?

man
I ... No offense, I'm just curious how this works.  It looks a lot like some
stuff we have.  Well, stuff we had.  On Earth.  I ... I like our older
technology better.  Most of the stuff in my ship is pretty old.

creature


...



man
Well that's the tour, not a lot to see on this ship, I'm afraid.  I don't
suppose you have any replicators or teleporters you'd be willing to give me?
At some point I'm going to run out of beer...

creature
Do you need more machinery?  
