THE END pilot pass B

MIKE wakes up abruptly.  He is alone on his small, dimly-lit spaceship.  His sleeping quarters are next to identical rooms, some of which are stripped bare.  Up the central corridor towards the front of the craft is the commons area and the cockpit.  Down towards the rear are the medical facility and maintenance deck, and a relatively large and open open cargo area.  MIKE gets out of bed, puts on a shirt and washes up slightly.

MIKE (voiceover)
Captain's log zero ... two ... point, whatever.  I've decided to start writing stuff down.  I don't know if I think it'll help me stay sane, or if I'm just letting my ego run the show at this point, or what.  Not that it matters.

MIKE grabs a granola-type bar from the commons area kitchen and makes his way towards the medical bay.  He turns on an overhead light, half of which immediately goes dark again.  He pulls the burned-out panel off and takes it to the cargo bay.  He sticks the broken panel to a random spot on a wall made of crossing patterns of elastic straps, littered with other parts.  He straps the broken panel in place, and goes deeper into the cargo area.  Not finding any replacements, he looks up and plucks one of the active overhead light panels off, and brings it back to the medical bay.

MIKE (voiceover, cont)
There's no shrink here to tell me I'm being narcissistic (two s'es?).  There's no ever-growing group of “let's just be friends” girls here, whose reactions could help me gauge what flavor of ass I'm being at the moment (...a-u?  Really?).  Anyway, there's nobody here now.

EXT space

The ship is in deep space, near the solar system according to recognizable star patterns.

MIKE (voiceover, cont)
No, that didn't come out right.  As far as I can tell, there's nobody.  Anywhere.  Ever.  So this is either going to be the dumbest diary ever recorded, or the last and most crappily-written chapter of human history.  ...Or both, I guess.

INT ship

MIKE is going over old manuals for his stasis rig, visibly agitated and nervous.  He follows tubes and checks status monitors, verifying the details of the complex system.

MIKE (voiceover)
I'll get into the whole probably-last-man-alive thing later.  You don't get linear thoughts out of me right now.  My immediate concern is the stasis rig in the medical bay.  This boat is mostly a decommissioned military scout ship.

EXT ship

MIKE (voiceover cont)
Rob kept saying we needed to clear all the old equipment out, and I kept not feeling like lugging everything through Gamma station and paying the overweight cargo fee.  My sheer laziness is pretty much vindicated at this point.  Ok now I'm just rambling.  

INT ship
MIKE types his journal at a dark terminal.

MIKE (voiceover, cont)
But that's just it, I've got all the time in the world.  I'm who-knows-how-many years away from anything, if in fact there IS ... anything.  Ever the optimist, I'd like to find out.  And since I won't live who-knows-how-many years without going into stasis, my current little pet project has been fixing up the stasis rig, which has been decommissioned for 20 years, and which has been cannibalized for parts.  I, not being a doctor, or a medical engineer or, you know, someone who could stay awake through an entire session of General Ed Biology... I have decided to hack on this machine, the full name of which I can sometimes pronounce, if I haven't been drinking, then strap myself into it, then put a dozen needles and tubes into an array of holes and not-yet-holes in my body, then pop a handful of pills whose names I'll never be able to pronounce, then trust a computer program hooked up to a bunch of surplus-store sensors to wake me up if and when this aimless vessel approaches anything that might be worth investigating.

MIKE sits staring at his journal on a console screen, having stopped typing in reaction to the weight of his own words.  After a very nervous pause, he continues.

MIKE (voiceover)
Beer time.

Cut to black.
