Captain's log 01-...whatever.  I've decided to start writing stuff down.  I don't know if I think it'll help me stay sane, or if I'm just letting my ego run the show at this point, or what.  Not that it matters.

There's no shrink here to tell me I'm being narcissistic.  There's no ever-growing group of “let's just be friends” girls here, whose reactions could help me gauge what flavor of ass I'm being at the moment.  There's nobody here now.

No, that didn't come out right.  As far as I can tell, there's nobody.  Anywhere.  Ever.  So this is either going to be the lamest diary ever recorded, or the last and most crappily-written chapter of human history.  ...Or both, I guess.

I'll get into the whole probably-last-man-alive thing later.  You don't get linear thoughts out of me right now.  My immediate concern is the stasis rig in the medical bay.  This boat is mostly a decommissioned military scout ship.

Rob kept saying we needed to clear all the old equipment out, and I kept not feeling like lugging everything through Gamma station and paying the overweight cargo fees.  My sheer laziness is pretty much vindicated at this point.  I'm not sure whether I'd tell Rob "I told you so" or not.  You know, if he wasn't dead.  Ok now I'm just rambling.

But that's just it, I've got all the time in the world.  Or, all the time in ... everywhere.  This isn't Star Wars; there's no hyperdrive.  I'm who-knows-how-many years or decades or centuries away from anything... if, in fact, there IS anything.  Ever the optimist, I'd like to find out.  And since I won't live who-knows-how-many years/decades/centuries without going into stasis, my current little pet project has been fixing up the ship's suspended animation rig, which has been decommissioned for 20 years, and which has been cannibalized for parts.  I, not being a doctor, or a medical engineer, or, you know, someone who could stay awake through an entire session General Ed Biology...  I have decided to hack on this machine, the full name of which I can usually pronounce, when I haven't been drinking, then strap myself into it, put a dozen needles and tubes into an array of holes and not-yet-holes in my body, pop a handful of pills whose names I'll never be able to pronounce, and then trust a computer program hooked up to a bunch of surplus-store sensors to wake me up if and when this aimless vessel approaches anything that might be worth investigating.

...Beer time.
